Freshservice integration (#717)
DataDog/integrations-extras: freshservice/README.md

In the URL field enter the following endpoint:

https://<YOUR_DOMAIN>.freshservice.com/api/v2/tickets

Custom Payload
First, check the Use custom payload checkbox to use a custom JSON payload. If you don’t do this, the standard Datadog payload is sent to Freshservice resulting in a failed request.

Next, enter a new ticket JSON payload. The following example uses only the required fields, so review Freshservice’s ticket endpoint for more options on customizing your payload:

{
  "email": "[email address to associate with ticket]",
  "subject": "$EVENT_TITLE",
  "description": "<img src=\"$SNAPSHOT\" /><hr/>$TEXT_ONLY_MSG",
  "status": 2,
  "priority": 2
}
Note:

Values such as $EVENT_TITLE are variables used by our webhook integration. For a full list of these variables and their meaning, refer to the webhook integration tile or our webhook integration documentation.
Manually enter an email address for the email field instead of using the variable of $EMAIL, which is only populated when mentioning the webhook in an Event Stream comment and not used within Monitor Alerts.

> The description field of the payload accepts HTML. Our $EVENT_MSG variable renders your monitor’s message in Markdown, which is not supported by Freshservice’s API, so $TEXT_ONLY_MSG is used instead, along with a graph snapshot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The description field of the payload accepts HTML. The `$EVENT_MSG` variable renders your monitor’s message in Markdown, which is not supported by Freshservice’s API, so `$TEXT_ONLY_MSG` is used instead, along with a graph snapshot.
```

> The status and priority fields are numbers mapped to different values. To see these values, review Freshservice’s ticket endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The status and priority fields are numbers mapped to different values. To see these values, review Freshservice’s ticket endpoint.
```

> Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Authentication

```

> Freshservice’s API uses Basic Access Authentication. Your Base64 encoded credentials should be sent in the Authorization request header. Accepted credentials are your username and password in username:password format, or your Freshservice API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Freshservice’s API uses basic access authentication. Your Base64 encoded credentials should be sent in the Authorization request header. Accepted credentials are your username and password in `username:password` format, or your Freshservice API key.

```

To set this up in your webhook, add the following to your Headers section:

> {"Authorization": "Basic <BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS>"}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`{"Authorization": "Basic <BASE64_ENCODED_CREDENTIALS>"}`

```

> Finishing Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Finishing Up

```

> In the Webhook integration tile, click Install Integration or Update Configuration (if you previously entered a webhook definition) to save your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Webhook integration tile, click **Install Integration** or **Update Configuration** (if you previously entered a webhook definition) to save your changes.

```

### Configuration

> You can now add the @webhook-<NAME> to your monitor message. The webhook is triggered when the monitor changes state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now add the `@webhook-<NAME>` to your monitor message. The webhook is triggered when the monitor changes state.
```

> We recommend adding your at-mention inside of {{#is_alert}} or {{#is_warning}} conditionals, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommend to add your at-mention inside of `{{#is_alert}}` or `{{#is_warning}}` conditionals, for example:
```

> {{#is_alert}}

Reviewer: backticks required here - ```

    {{host.name}} is down!
    @webhook-freshservice
{{/is_alert}}

> When your monitor triggers an alert, a new ticket appears in your Freshservice dashboard. If you choose not to use a conditional statement, a new ticket is created when the monitor recovers because the webhook is triggered again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your monitor triggers an alert, a new ticket appears in your Freshservice dashboard. If you choose not to use a conditional statement, a new ticket is created when the monitor recovers because the webhook is triggered again.

```

> Limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Limitations

```

> Ticket Creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Ticket Creation

```

Reviewer: This should be an h4

The Webhooks integration can only create tickets. Updating an existing ticket requires a PUT method and the Webhooks integration only supports POST methods.

> Status and Priority

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Status and priority

```

> The $ALERT_STATUS and $PRIORITY variables return strings (such as ALERT and NORMAL) instead of a numerical value expected by Freshservice’s API. To setup different levels of status and priorities, create duplicate webhooks with hard-coded status and priority fields. Then, @-mention those webhooks inside of related conditional statements, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `$ALERT_STATUS` and `$PRIORITY` variables return strings (such as `ALERT` and `NORMAL`) instead of a numerical value expected by Freshservice’s API. To setup different levels of status and priorities, create duplicate webhooks with hard-coded status and priority fields. Then, `@-mention` those webhooks inside of related conditional statements, for example:

```

> {{#is_warning}}

Reviewer: Backticks required here - ```

    Disk space usage is above 80%
    @webhook-freshservice-warning
{{/is_warning}}
{{#is_alert}}
    Disk space usage is above 95%
    @webhook-freshservice-alert
{{/is_alert}}

> Tagging

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Tagging

```

Tagging is supported in Freshservice’s API, but note the following:

> The tags parameter in your JSON payload must be an array. That means you cannot use the $TAGS webhook variable because it returns a comma separated list of strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The tags parameter in your JSON payload must be an array. That means you cannot use the `$TAGS` webhook variable because it returns a comma separated list of strings.
```

> Tags added to your JSON payload must not contain a : character, so you may not be able to map all of your Datadog tags to Freshservice. If a : character exists in your tags, your request fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tags added to your JSON payload must not contain a `:` character, so you may not be able to map all of your Datadog tags to Freshservice. If a `:` character exists in your tags, your request fails.
```

> Review our Webhook integration documentation for more variables that may be useful for Freshservice tags. In the following example, $HOSTNAME and $ORG_ID are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review our [Webhook integration documentation][2] for more variables that may be useful for Freshservice tags. In the following example, `$HOSTNAME` and `$ORG_ID` are used:

```

> {

Reviewer: Backticks required here - ```

Reviewer: Backticks are still missing here

"email": "<EMAIL_ADDRESS_TO_ASSOCIATE_WITH_TICKET>",
"subject": "$EVENT_TITLE",
"description": "<img src=\"$SNAPSHOT\" /><hr/>$TEXT_ONLY_MSG",
"status": 2,
"priority": 2,
"tags": ["$HOSTNAME", "$ORG_ID"]
}

## Data Collected

### Metrics

The Freshservice integration does not provide any metrics.

### Service Checks

The Freshservice integration does not include any service checks.

### Events

The Freshservice integration does not include any events.

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

# Freshservice Tickets using Webhooks

## Overview

This guide shows you how to use the Webhooks integration to open new tickets in Freshservice when a monitor alerts.

## Setup

### Installation

To begin, open the Webhooks integration tile, go to the Configuration tab, then scroll to the bottom form to add a new webhook.

#### Name

> Provide your webhook with a name. This name is used in your monitor message (see Usage) with @webhook-<NAME>. For example, if you name your webhook freshservice, you can open a ticket from your monitor by mentioning @webhook-freshservice in the monitor message.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean to link `Usage`?

> Provide your webhook with a name. This name is used in your monitor message (see Usage) with @webhook-<NAME>. For example, if you name your webhook freshservice, you can open a ticket from your monitor by mentioning @webhook-freshservice in the monitor message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provide your webhook with a name. This name is used in your monitor message (see Usage) with @webhook-<NAME>. For example, if you name your webhook `freshservice`, you can open a ticket from your monitor by mentioning `@webhook-freshservice` in the monitor message.

```

#### URL

Freshservice has 2 different versions of their API. This guide uses V2, but it is possible to use V1 with slight modifications to your JSON payload.

In the URL field enter the following endpoint:

`https://<YOUR_DOMAIN>.freshservice.com/api/v2/tickets`

#### Custom Payload

> First, check the **Use custom payload** checkbox to use a custom JSON payload. If you don’t do this, the standard Datadog payload is sent to Freshservice resulting in a failed request.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this button exist, you can just set the payload in the UI text area

Next, enter a new ticket JSON payload. The following example uses only the required fields, so review Freshservice’s ticket endpoint for more options on customizing your payload:

```
{
  "email": "[email address to associate with ticket]",
  "subject": "$EVENT_TITLE",
  "description": "<img src=\"$SNAPSHOT\" /><hr/>$TEXT_ONLY_MSG",
  "status": 2,
  "priority": 2
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

**Notes**:

> ```

Reviewer: Looks like the backticks ended up under notes, should be above on line 42. I'd fix but it's not letting me comment it out as it perceives I'm trying to give you an example in the UI 😆
